A chatbot (also known as a talkbot, chatterbot, Bot, IM bot, interactive agent, or Artificial Conversational Entity) is a computer program or an artificial intelligence which conducts a conversation via auditory or textual methods. Such programs are often designed to convincingly simulate how a human would behave as a conversational partner, thereby passing the Turing test. Chatbots are typically used in dialog systems for various practical purposes including customer service or information acquisition. Some chatterbots use sophisticated natural language processing systems, but many simpler systems scan for keywords within the input, then pull a reply with the most matching keywords, or the most similar wording pattern, from a database.

The term "ChatterBot" was originally coined by Michael Mauldin (creator of the first Verbot, Julia) in 1994 to describe these conversational programs.Today, most chatbots are either accessed via virtual assistants such as Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa, via messaging apps such as Facebook Messenger or WeChat, or via individual organizations' apps and websites. Chatbots can be classified into usage categories such as conversational commerce (e-commerce via chat), analytics, communication, customer support, design, developer tools, education, entertainment, finance, food, games, health, HR, marketing, news, personal, productivity, shopping, social, sports, travel and utilities.
Background
In 1950, Alan Turing's famous article "Computing Machinery and Intelligence" was published, which proposed what is now called the Turing test as a criterion of intelligence. This criterion depends on the ability of a computer program to impersonate a human in a real-time written conversation with a human judge, sufficiently well that the judge is unable to distinguish reliably—on the basis of the conversational content alone—between the program and a real human. The notoriety of Turing's proposed test stimulated great interest in Joseph Weizenbaum's program ELIZA, published in 1966, which seemed to be able to fool users into believing that they were conversing with a real human. However Weizenbaum himself did not claim that ELIZA was genuinely intelligent, and the Introduction to his paper presented it more as a debunking exercise:

[In] artificial intelligence ... machines are made to behave in wondrous ways, often sufficient to dazzle even the most experienced observer. But once a particular program is unmasked, once its inner workings are explained ... its magic crumbles away; it stands revealed as a mere collection of procedures ... The observer says to himself "I could have written that". With that thought he moves the program in question from the shelf marked "intelligent", to that reserved for curios ... The object of this paper is to cause just such a re-evaluation of the program about to be "explained". Few programs ever needed it more.

Facilities
Prince is a network of academic, co-curricular and sports infrastructure collaborates to deliver a great learning experience to its students.

Hostel	Library

The hostels in our campus are designed to provide an ideal environment conducive for academic pursuit. All the hostels are provided with dining halls, uninterrupted water supply, reading halls, round the clock STD, ISD booths, Internet connection, indoor recreation & television.


The library is the focal point and nerve centre of any educational Institution. The college library is well equipped with a large number of technical books and Indian and Foreign technical journals and periodicals, besides a good collection of light reading materials.

Sports	Transport

The Institution has excellent playgrounds and facilities   for Basketball, Football, Hockey, Volleyball, Cricket , Shuttle & badminton. Students regularly participate in intercollegiate competitions and win laurels.


To ensure safe travel the college has its own fleet of outsourced college buses designed as per standards and manned by trained drivers and personnel sensitized to the needs of students. The Transport Service (optional) is operated by the college and a separate transport fee is charged for this. For supervision and monitoring, transport supervisor is on board throughout the journey.

Lab Facility	Canteen

Every Department has well organized laboratories fitted with state-of-the-art equipments for providing hands-on practical experience to the students.


The College Canteen is a large spacious area, with a view of greenery all around, and a variety of refreshments and meals available. It tends to be the most popular place on campus, not only for physical refreshment but also for student bonding, discussions and even work on assignments and projects.

Eligibility:
UNDER-GRADUATE PROGRAMS(B.E./ B.TECH).
1. (10+2)/ HSC (Academic) or Equivalent
For candidates belonging to Other Communities (OC) of Tamil Nadu State: a minimum average of 50% in Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry.
For candidates of Backward class Community (BC) and BC (Muslims) of Tamil Nadu State: a minimum average of 45% in Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry.
For candidates of Most Backward class Community (MBC) & DNC of Tamil Nadu State: a minimum average of 40% in Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry.
For candidates of SCA/SC/ST community of Tamil Nadu State: a mere pass with Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry.
2. HSC (Vocational) :
For candidates belonging to Other Communities (OC) of Tamil Nadu State: a minimum average of 50% in the related subjects and Vocational subjects (theory and practicals)
For candidates belonging to Backward class Community (BC) and BC (Muslims) of Tamil Nadu State: a minimum average of 45% in the related subjects and Vocational subjects (theory and practicals)
For candidates belonging to Most Backward class Community (MBC) & DNC of Tamil Nadu State: a minimum average of 40% in the related subjects and Vocational subjects (theory and practicals)
For candidates belonging to SCA/SC/ST Community of Tamil Nadu State: a mere pass in the related subjects and Vocational subjects (theory and practicals)
DIRECT SECOND YEAR (B.E./ B.TECH) PROGRAMS- LATERAL ENTRY
Diploma Candidates :
       A pass with minimum eligibility marks in one of the Diploma Courses in Engineering / Technology of the State Board of Technical Education and Training, Tamil Nadu / Equivalent prescribed for the respective Degree Courses.
B.Sc Candidates :
       A pass with minimum eligibility marks in any recognized Bachelor’s Degree in Science with minimum 3-years duration with (10+2+3) pattern of study with Mathematics as one of the subjects at the Degree level.

MINIMUM ELIGIBILITY MARKS
The candidates should have obtained the following marks in the qualifying examination, Diploma/ B.Sc for eligible to admission.

For candidates belonging to Other Communities (OC): -A minimum average of 55.00% in the Pre-final and Final semesters put together.
For candidates of BC & BC (Muslims) Communities: - A minimum average of 50.00% in the Pre-final and Final semesters put together.
For candidates of MBC & DNC Communities: - A minimum average of 45.00% in the Pre-final and Final semesters put together.
For candidates of SCA/SC/ST Communities: - A mere pass in the qualifying examination which is same as the passing minimum for Diploma examination of the State of Technical Education and Training, Tamil Nadu/ B.Sc Degree Examination of Universities.
(In case of candidates studied in annual pattern, marks obtained by them in the final year shall be taken into account for arriving minimum eligibility marks).
POST-GRADUATE PROGRAMS (M.C.A/M.B.A)
M.C.A.
A pass in a recognised Bachelor’s degree of minimum 3 years duration with mathematics at 10+2 level or at Graduate level and obtained at least 50 %(45 % in the case of candidates belonging to reserved category) in the qualifying degree examination.
(a)10+2+3/4 years Pattern
(or)
(b)10+3 years diploma + 3 years Pattern
(or)
(c) (i)10+2+AMIE*
(or)
(ii) 10+3 Years diploma (awarded by the State Board of Technical Education) + AMIE.
M.C.A.(Lateral Entry)
A pass in a recognised Bachelor’s degree of minimum 3 years duration in BCA, B.Sc. (Information Technology /Computer Science) with mathematics as a course at 10+2 level or at Graduate level and obtained at least 50 %(45 % in the case of candidates belonging to reserved category) in the qualifying degree examinations.
(a)10+2+3 years Pattern
M.B.A.
A pass in a recognised Bachelor’s degree of minimum 3 years duration and obtained at least 50 % (45 % in the case of candidates belonging to reserved category) in the qualifying degree examination.
(a) 10+2+3 years pattern
(or)
(b) 10+3 years Diploma + 3 years pattern
(or)
(c) B.E./B.Tech./B.Arch./B.Pharm.
(or)
(d) (i) 10+2+AMIE*
(or)
(ii) 10+3 Years diploma (awarded by the State Board of Technical Education) + AMIE.

Admission Procedure:
UNDER GRADUATE & POST GRADUATE PROGRAMMES
Application for admission to a course should be made only in the prescribed form, which will be given along with the prospectus(Cost of application form is Rs.200/-). Application form properly filled-in should be sent only to the Admission Office or handed over in person along with

       1. A xerox copy of the mark sheet of qualifying examination, attested by a Gazetted Officer and
       2. Prescribed Registration fee. The Registration fee can be paid by cash at the Administration Office, or by DD in favour of Prince Shri Venkateshwara Padmavathy Engineering College, payable at chennai.

All Students seeking admission to any course should attach xerox copies of the mark sheet of qualifying examination and proof of age, which are duly attested along with the application. The candidates should produce authentic certificate indicating the corresponding marks of each grade in the mark sheet. Applications, which are incomplete or not accompanied by the prescribed documents and registration fee are liable for rejection.

The scrutiny committee will process the applications and provisionally select the students on merit. An interview will be conducted if necessary.

If any candidate is found to have secured admission by fraudulent methods like presentation of forged certificates / dishonoured DD etc., he/ she will be dismissed from the college at any time during the courses and will forfeit the fees paid.

The admission notice will be sent to the selected candidates intimating the dates on which they should report at the administration office with the following original certificates.

            1. Mark sheet/ Pass Certificate of the qualifying examination.
            2. T.C. from the institution last studied
            3. Conduct Certificate
            4. Eligibility certificate from Anna University of Technology, Chennai.
            5. Six passport size recent colour photographs.

After scrutiny of the above documents and payment of the prescribed fees, the student will report to the Principal, with the admission letter to join the course. The date(s) of joining the course will be intimated in advance.



ELIZA's key method of operation (copied by chatbot designers ever since) involves the recognition of cue words or phrases in the input, and the output of corresponding pre-prepared or pre-programmed responses that can move the conversation forward in an apparently meaningful way (e.g. by responding to any input that contains the word 'MOTHER' with 'TELL ME MORE ABOUT YOUR FAMILY').Thus an illusion of understanding is generated, even though the processing involved has been merely superficial. ELIZA showed that such an illusion is surprisingly easy to generate, because human judges are so ready to give the benefit of the doubt when conversational responses are capable of being interpreted as "intelligent".

Interface designers have come to appreciate that humans' readiness to interpret computer output as genuinely conversational—even when it is actually based on rather simple pattern-matching—can be exploited for useful purposes. Most people prefer to engage with programs that are human-like, and this gives chatbot-style techniques a potentially useful role in interactive systems that need to elicit information from users, as long as that information is relatively straightforward and falls into predictable categories. Thus, for example, online help systems can usefully employ chatbot techniques to identify the area of help that users require, potentially providing a "friendlier" interface than a more formal search or menu system. This sort of usage holds the prospect of moving chatbot technology from Weizenbaum's "shelf ... reserved for curios" to that marked "genuinely useful computational methods".

Development
The classic historic early chatbots are ELIZA (1966) and PARRY (1972).More recent notable programs include A.L.I.C.E., Jabberwacky and D.U.D.E (Agence Nationale de la Recherche and CNRS 2006). While ELIZA and PARRY were used exclusively to simulate typed conversation, many chatbots now include functional features such as games and web searching abilities. In 1984, a book called The Policeman's Beard is Half Constructed was published, allegedly written by the chatbot Racter (though the program as released would not have been capable of doing so).

One pertinent field of AI research is natural language processing. Usually, weak AI fields employ specialized software or programming languages created specifically for the narrow function required. For example, A.L.I.C.E. uses a markup language called AIML, which is specific to its function as a conversational agent, and has since been adopted by various other developers of, so called, Alicebots. Nevertheless, A.L.I.C.E. is still purely based on pattern matching techniques without any reasoning capabilities, the same technique ELIZA was using back in 1966. This is not strong AI, which would require sapience and logical reasoning abilities.

Jabberwacky learns new responses and context based on real-time user interactions, rather than being driven from a static database. Some more recent chatbots also combine real-time learning with evolutionary algorithms that optimise their ability to communicate based on each conversation held. Still, there is currently no general purpose conversational artificial intelligence, and some software developers focus on the practical aspect, information retrieval.

Chatbot competitions focus on the Turing test or more specific goals. Two such annual contests are the Loebner Prize and The Chatterbox Challenge (offline since 2015, materials can still be found from web archives).

According to Forrester (2015), AI will replace 16 percent of American jobs by the end of the decade.Chatbots have been used in applications such as customer service, sales and product education. However, a study conducted by Narrative Science in 2015 found that 80 percent of their respondents believe AI improves worker performance and creates jobs.[citation needed]

Application
See also: Virtual assistant

Aeromexico airline chatbot running on Facebook Messenger, March 2018
Messaging apps
Many companies' chatbots run on messaging apps like Facebook Messenger (since 2016), WeChat (since 2013),WhatsApp, LiveChat, Kik, Slack, Line, Telegram, or simply via SMS. They are used for B2C customer service, sales and marketing.

In 2016, Facebook Messenger allowed developers to place chatbots on their platform. There were 30,000 bots created for Messenger in the first six months, rising to 100,000 by September 2017.

Since September 2017, this has also been as part of a pilot program on WhatsApp. Airlines KLM and Aeroméxico both announced their participation in the testing;both airlines had previously launched customer services on the Facebook Messenger platform.

The bots usually appear as one of the user's contacts, but can sometimes act as participants in a group chat.

Many banks and insurers, media and e-commerce companies, airlines and hotel chains, retailers, health care providers, government entities and restaurant chains have used chatbots to answer simple questions, increase customer engagement,for promotion, and to offer additional ways to order from them.

A 2017 study showed 4% of companies used chatbots.According to a 2016 study, 80% of businesses said they intended to have one by 2020.

As part of company apps and websites
Previous generations of chatbots were present on company websites, e.g. Ask Jenn from Alaska Airlines which debuted in 2008 or Expedia's virtual customer service agent which launched in 2011.The newer generation of chatbots includes IBM Watson-powered "Rocky", introduced in February 2017 by the New York City-based e-commerce company Rare Carat to provide information to prospective diamond buyers.

Company internal platforms
Other companies explore ways they can use chatbots internally, for example for Customer Support, Human Resources, or even in Internet-of-Things (IoT) projects. Overstock.com, for one, has reportedly launched a chatbot named Mila to automate certain simple yet time-consuming processes when requesting for a sick leave.Other large companies such as Lloyds Banking Group, Royal Bank of Scotland, Renault and Citroën are now using automated online assistants instead of call centres with humans to provide a first point of contact. A SaaS chatbot business ecosystem has been steadily growing since the F8 Conference when Zuckerberg unveiled that Messenger would allow chatbots into the app.

Toys
Chatbots have also been incorporated into devices not primarily meant for computing such as toys.

Hello Barbie is an Internet-connected version of the doll that uses a chatbot provided by the company ToyTalk,which previously used the chatbot for a range of smartphone-based characters for children.These characters' behaviors are constrained by a set of rules that in effect emulate a particular character and produce a storyline.

IBM's Watson computer has been used as the basis for chatbot-based educational toys for companies such as CogniToys intended to interact with children for educational purposes.

Chatbot creation
The process of creating a chatbot follows a pattern similar to the development of a web page or a mobile app. It can be divided into Design, Building, Analytics and Maintenance.

Design
The chatbot design is the process that defines the interaction between the user and the chatbot.The chatbot designer will define the chatbot personality, the questions that will be asked to the users, and the overall interaction.It can be viewed as a subset of the conversational design. In order to speed up this process, designers can use dedicated chatbot design tools, that allow for immediate preview, team collaboration and video export.An important part of the chatbot design is also centered around user testing. User testing can be performed following the same principles that guide the user testing of graphical interfaces.

Building
The process of building a chatbot can be divided into two main tasks: understanding the user's intent and producing the correct answer. The first task involves understanding the user input. In order to properly understand a user input in a free text form, a Natural Language Processing Engine can be used.The second task may involve different approaches depending on the type of the response that the chatbot will generate.

Analytics
The usage of the chatbot can be monitored in order to spot potential flaws or problems. It can also provide useful insights that can improve the final user experience.

Maintenance
To keep chatbots up to speed with changing company products and services, traditional chatbot development platforms require ongoing maintenance. This can either be in the form of an ongoing service provider or for larger enterprises in the form of an in-house chatbot training team.To eliminate these costs, some startups are experimenting with Artificial Intelligence to develop self-learning chatbots, particularly in Customer Service applications.

Chatbot development platforms
The process of building, testing and deploying chatbots can be done on cloud based chatbot development platforms offered by cloud Platform as a Service (PaaS) providers such as Yekaliva, Oracle Cloud Platform, SnatchBot and IBM Watson.These cloud platforms provide Natural Language Processing, Artificial Intelligence and Mobile Backend as a Service for chatbot development.

APIs
There are many APIs available for building your own chatbots, such as AARC.

Malicious use
Malicious chatbots are frequently used to fill chat rooms with spam and advertisements, by mimicking human behaviour and conversations or to entice people into revealing personal information, such as bank account numbers. They are commonly found on Yahoo! Messenger, Windows Live Messenger, AOL Instant Messenger and other instant messaging protocols. There has also been a published report of a chatbot used in a fake personal ad on a dating service's website.

Programs offered
 
Courses Offered
 
Prince Shri Venkateshwara Padmavathy Engineering College is approved by the All India Council for Technical Education, New Delhi (AICTE) and is affiliated to Anna University, Chennai.Our College offers a wide range Our College offers a wide range
of Under-graduate courses besides offering Post-graduate courses.
 
UG Course
 	UG Course	INTAKE
•	B. E – Computer Science and Engineering	
60
•	B.E – Electronics and Communication Engineering	
120
•	B.E – Electrical and Electronics Engineering	
60
•	B.E – Mechanical Engineering	
120
•	B.Tech – Information Technology	
60
•	B.E – Civil Engineering	60
 	TOTAL	
480
 
PG Course
 	PG Course	
INTAKE
•	M.E Applied Electronics	
18
•	MBA	
60
 	TOTAL	
78
 
Departments

PLACEMENT TRAINING
Our institution has a remarkable interaction with top ranking IT companies and related core companies for other Departments like ECE,EEE,MECH and CIVIL. Our placement cell arranges campus interviews for final year students. The motto of our placement cell is to help the students to fulfill their dreams by providing quality placement and to assure a challenging career. We have well equipped labs and enhanced software to conduct online tests. We train the students to face the demands of 21st Century. The placement cell helps the students

To develop their communication and Presentation skills.
To motivate their passions
To get placed in IT sectors and core companies.
To develop their personality skills and tecniques needed to face the interviews.
To enhance their technical ability and gain exposure to practical world
To improve the soft skills, quatitative and qualitative aptitude and verbal reasoning of the students training programs are conducted.

First Year
Guest lectures are arranged in emerging technolgies .
Bridge course is conducted for the benefit of students.
Second Year
Aptitude training programs by SMART resources.
Guest lectures are arranged in emerging technolgies
Third Year
Industrial visits to reputed companies are arranged to gain more details about indutrial activities.
Softskills training programmes and lab sessions are provided to improve the communication and prsentation skills.
Aptitude training programs by SMART resources.
Guest lectures are arranged in emerging technolgies
Final Year
Classes are conducted to improve their qualitative and quatitative apptitude skills..
Softskills training programmes are given which build the students to work well with others, to work under pressure, to accept the responsibilities and to manage the time effectively.
In order to increase the ability to raeson and solve problems in different ways, the students are given training in verbal reasoning an hour per week.
Special training for programme testing and debugging.
Special classes are conducted for learning other languages like Japanese.
Online aptitude tests are conducted 2 hours per week.
Books are provided for solving puzzles , managerial ethics and techniques needed to face the interviews and career development.
Refresher training programmes are carried out before campus interview
Aptitude training programs by SMART resources.
Guest lectures are arranged in emerging technolgies and new trends.
Career Guidance / Awareness Programs
Online Awareness program on Government Exams
Career Guidance Program “JOB OPPORTUNITIES IN ABROAD” – Online mode
Career Guidance Program - Talk on opportunity in core industry
Career Guidance Program (Online) – How to prepare and attend interview?
Career Opportunities after Education – Online Mode
Career Guidance Program on “How to prepare for placements in core companies?
Online Career Guidance Program on “Exploring Career Opportunities in MNC
Online Career Guidance Program – Expectations of Industries from Mechanical Engineering Graduates
Online Career guidance training program
Career Guidance – Online Awareness Program on Enhance your technical skills for placement in core industry
Online Career Guidance Program on IT industry expectations from the young engineers


Prince Shri Venkateshwara Padmavathy Engineering College

Medavakkam - Mambakkam Road,

Ponmar, Chennai – 600 127.

Phone:9047040412, 9047040413, 9677029234

Email: prince@psvpec.in

Website: www.psvpec.in

